.Dd March 16, 2014
.Dt CD 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm cd
.Nd change the working directory
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl L | P
.Op Ar directory
.Nm
-
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility shall change the working directory of the current shell execution
environment by executing the following steps in sequence\&.
(In the following steps, the symbol \fBcurpath\fP represents an
intermediate value used to simplify the description of the
algorithm used by \fBcd\fP. There is no requirement
that \fBcurpath\fP be made visible to the application\&.)
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It 1\&.
If no \fIdirectory\fP operand is given and the \fIHOME\fP environment
variable is empty or undefined, the default behavior is
implementation\-defined and no further steps shall be taken.
.It 2\&.
If no \fIdirectory\fP operand is given and the \fIHOME\fP environment
variable is set to a non-empty value, the
.Nm
utility shall behave as if the directory named in the \fIHOME\fP
environment variable was specified as the \fIdirectory\fP operand.
.It 3\&.
If the \fIdirectory\fP operand begins with a slash character, set
\fBcurpath\fP to the operand and proceed to step 7.
.It 4\&.
If the first component of the directory operand is dot or dot-dot, proceed to
step 6.
.It 5\&.
Starting with the first pathname in the colon-separated pathnames of
\fICDPATH\fP (see the ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES section) if the pathname
is non-null, test if the concatenation of that pathname, a slash character,
and the \fIdirectory\fP operand names a directory. If the pathname is null,
test if the concatenation of dot, a slash character, and the operand names
a directory. In either case, if the resulting string names an existing
directory, set \fBcurpath\fP to that string and proceed to step 7.
Otherwise, repeat this step with the next pathname in \fICDPATH\fP
until all pathnames have been tested.
.It 6\&.
Set \fBcurpath\fP to the string formed by the concatenation of the value
of \fIPWD\fP, a slash character, and the operand.
.It 7\&.
If the \fB-P\fP option is in effect, the
.Nm
utility shall perform actions equivalent to the \fIchdir\fP() function,
called with \fBcurpath\fP as the path argument. If these actions succeed,
the \fIPWD\fP environment variable shall be set to an absolute pathname for
the current working directory and shall not contain filename components that,
in the context of pathname resolution, refer to a file of type symbolic link.
If there is insufficient permission on the new directory, or on any parent of
that directory, to determine the current working directory, the value of the
\fIPWD\fP environment variable is unspecified. If the actions equivalent
to \fIchdir\fP() fail for any reason, the
.Nm
utility shall display an appropriate error message and not alter the
\fIPWD\fP environment variable. Whether the actions equivalent to
\fIchdir\fP() succeed or fail, no further steps shall be taken.
.It 8\&.
The \fBcurpath\fP value shall then be converted to canonical form as
follows, considering each component from beginning to end, in sequence:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It a\&.
Dot components and any slashes that separate them from the next component shall
be deleted.
.It b\&.
For each dot-dot component, if there is a preceding component and it is neither
root nor dot-dot, the preceding component, all slashes separating the preceding
component from dot-dot, dot-dot and all slashes separating dot-dot from the
following component shall be deleted.
.It c\&.
An implementation may further simplify \fBcurpath\fP by removing any trailing
slash characters that are not also leading slashes, replacing multiple
non-leading consecutive slashes with a single slash, and replacing three or
more leading slashes with a single slash. If, as a result of this
canonicalization, the \fBcurpath\fP variable is null, no further
steps shall be taken.
.El
.It 9\&.
The
.Nm
utility shall then perform actions equivalent to the \fIchdir\fP() function
called with \fBcurpath\fP as the \fIpath\fP argument. If these actions
failed for any reason, the
.Nm
utility shall display an appropriate error message and no further
steps shall be taken. The \fIPWD\fP environment variable shall be set to
\fBcurpath\fP.
.El
.Pp
If, during the execution of the above steps, the \fIPWD\fP environment
variable is changed, the \fIOLDPWD\fP environment variable shall also be
changed to the value of the old working directory (that is the current working
directory immediately prior to the call to \fBcd\fP).
.Sh OPERANDS
The following operands shall be supported:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Ar directory
An absolute or relative pathname of the directory that shall become the new
working directory. The interpretation of a relative pathname by
.nm
depends on the \fB-L\fP option and the \fICDPATH\fP and \fIPWD\fP
environment variables. If \fIdirectory\fP is an empty string,
the results are unspecified.
.It Ar -
When a hyphen is used as the operand, this shall be equivalent to the command:
.Pp
\fBcd "$OLDPWD" && pwd\fP
.Pp
which changes to the previous working directory and then writes its name.
.El
.Sh STDIN
Not used.
.Sh INPUT FILES
None.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The following environment variables shall affect the execution of \fBcd\fP:
.Bl -tag -Width -flag
.It Ar CDPATH
A colon-separated list of pathnames that refer to directories. The
.Nm
utility shall use this list in its attempt to change the directory, as
described in the \fBDESCRIPTION\fP. An empty string in place of a directory
pathname represents the current directory. If \fICDPATH\fP is not set,
it shall be treated as if it were an empty string.
.It Ar HOME
The name of the directory, used when no \fIdirectory\fP operand is specified.
.It Ar LANG
Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are unset or
null. (See the Base Definitions volume of IEEE Std 1003.1-2001, Section 8.2,
Internationalization Variables for the precedence of internationalization
variables used to determine the values of locale categories.)
.It Ar OLDPWD
A pathname of the previous working directory, used by \fIcd -\fP.
.It Ar PWD
This variable shall be set as specified in the DESCRIPTION. If an application
sets or unsets the value of \fIPWD\fP , the behavior of cd is unspecified.
.El
.Sh ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS
Default.
.Sh STDOUT
If a non-empty directory name from \fICDPATH\fP is used, or if \fIcd -\fP
is used, an absolute pathname of the new working directory shall be
written to the standard output as follows:
.Pp
\fB"%s\\n", <new directory>\fP
.Pp
Otherwise, there shall be no output.
.Sh STDERR
The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.
.Sh OUTPUT FILES
None.
.SH EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
None.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The following exit values shall be returned:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It 0
The directory was successfully changed.
.It >0
An error occurred.
.El
.Sh CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS
The working directory shall remain unchanged.
.Sh APPLICATION USAGE
Since
.Nm
affects the current shell execution environment, it is always provided
as a shell regular built-in. If it is called in a subshell or separate utility
execution environment, such as one of the following:
.Pp
\fB(cd /tmp) nohup cd find . -exec cd {} \;\fP
.Pp
it does not affect the working directory of the caller's environment.
.Pp
The user must have execute (search) permission in \fIdirectory\fP
in order to change to it.
.Sh Examples
None.
.Sh RATIONALE
The use of the \fICDPATH\fP was introduced in the System V shell.
Its use is analogous to the use of the \fIPATH\fP variable in the shell.
The BSD C shell used a shell parameter \fIcdpath\fP for this purpose.
.Pp
A common extension when \fIHOME\fP is undefined is to get the login directory
from the user database for the invoking user. This does not occur on System V
implementations.
.Pp
Some historical shells, such as the KornShell, took special actions when the
directory name contained a dot-dot component, selecting the logical parent of
the directory, rather than the actual parent directory; that is, it moved up one
level toward the '/' in the pathname, remembering what the user typed, rather
than performing the equivalent of:
.Pp
\fBchdir("..");\fP
.Pp
In such a shell, the following commands would not necessarily produce equivalent
output for all directories:
.Pp
\fBcd .. && ls ls ..\fP
.Pp
This behavior is now the default. It is not consistent with the definition of
dot-dot in most historical practice; that is, while this behavior has been
optionally available in the KornShell, other shells have historically not
supported this functionality. The logical pathname is stored in the \fIPWD\fP
environment variable when the
.Nm
utility completes and this value is used to construct the
next directory name if
.Nm
is invoked with the \fB-L\fP option.
.Sh FUTURE DIRECTIONS
None.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pwd 1 ,
.Xr chdir 2
.Sh COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE
Std 1003.1, 2003 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable
Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
Copyright (C) 2001-2003 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between this
version and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be
obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .
