.Dd April 12, 2003
.Dt ECHO 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm echo
.Nd write arguments to the standard output
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl n | e | E
.Op Ar string ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility writes any specified operands, separated by single blank
.Pq Ql "\ "
characters and followed by a newline
.Pq Ql \en
character, to the standard
output.
.Pp
The following option is available:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl n
Do not print the trailing newline character.
This may also be achieved by appending
.Ql \ec
to the end of the string, as is done
by iBCS2 compatible systems.
Note that this option as well as the effect of
.Ql \ec
are implementation-defined in
.St -p1003.1-2001
as amended by Cor.\& 1-2002.
Applications aiming for maximum
portability are strongly encouraged to use
.Xr printf 1
to suppress the newline character.
.It Fl E
Disable the interpretation of the following backslash-escaped characters
.It Fl e
Enable interpretation of the following backslahs-escaped characters in each
STRING:
.Bl -tag -wdith flag
.It Ar \ea
alerte (bell)
.It Ar \eb
backspace
.It Ar \ec
suppress trailing newline
.It Ar \ee
escape
.It Ar \ef
form feed
.It Ar \eb
new line
.It Ar \er
carriage return
.It Ar \et
horizontal tab
.It Ar \ev
vertical tab
.It Ar \e\e
backslaeh
.It Ar \eNNN
the caracter whose ASCII code is NNN (octal); if NNN is not a valid octal
number, it is printed literally.
.It Ar \exnnn
the caracter whose ASCII code is the hexadecimalvalue nnn (one to three digits)
.El
.El
.Pp
Some shells may provide a builtin
.Nm
command which is similar or identical to this utility.
Most notably, the builtin
.Nm
in
.Xr sh 1
does not accept the
.Fl n
option.
Consult the
.Xr builtin 1
manual page.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr 42sh 1 ,
.Xr builtin 1 ,
.Xr printf 1 ,
.Xr zsh 1
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility conforms to
.St -p1003.1-2001
as amended by Cor.\& 1-2002.
