.Dd March 26, 2014
.Dt env 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm env
.Nd set environment for command invocation
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl -help
.Nm
.Op Fl i | \& | -ignore-environment
.Op Ar utility [ arg... ]
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility obtains the current environment, modifies it according
to its arguments, then invokes the utility named by the \fIutility\fP
operand with the modified environment.
.Pp
Optional arguements are passe to \fIutility\fP. If no \fIutility\fP
operand is specified, the resulting environment is written to the standard
output, with one \fIname=value\fP pair per line.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl i | \& | -ignore-environment
Ignores the environment that would otherwise be inherited from the current
shell. Restricts the environment for \fIutility\fP to that specified by the
arguements.
.It Fl -help
display this help and exit
.El
.Sh OPERANDS
The following operands are supported:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Ar name=value
Arguements of the form \fIname=value\fP modify the execution environment, and
are placed into the inherited environment before \fIutility\fP is invoked.
.It Ar utility
The name of the utility to be invoked. If \fIutility\fP names any of the special
shell built-in utilities, the results are undefined.
.It Ar arg
A string to pass as an argument for the invoked utility.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Example 1: Invoking utilities with new PATH values
.Pp
The following utility:
.Pp
example% env -i PATH=/mybin mygrep xyz mfile
invokes the utility mygrep with a new PATH value as the only entry in its
environment. In this case, PATH is used to locate mygrep, which then must reside
in /mybin.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
See environ(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables that
affect the execution of env: LANG, LC_ALL, LC_CTYPE, LC_MESSAGES, and NLSPATH.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Ar PATH
Determine the location of the \fIutility\fP. If PATH is specified as a
\fIname=value\fP operand to env, the value given shall be used in the search for
\fIutlity\fP.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
If \fIutility\fP is invoked, the exit status of env is the exit status of
\fIutility\fP. Otherwise, the env utility returns one of the following exit
values:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It 0
Successfull completion
.It 1
An error occured.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr 42sh 1 ,
.Xr environ 7
