.Dd March 26, 2014
.Dt setenv 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm setenv
.Nd shell built-in functions to determine the characteristics for environmental
variables of the current shell and its descendents
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar VARNAME
.Op Ar value
.Op Ar 1 | 0
.Sh DESCRIPTION
If value it's not specified, the
.Nm
utility sets the environment variable \fIVARNAME\fP to an empty (null) value.
.Pp
Overwise, if last arguments are set to 1 or not set, the
.Nm
utility sets \fIVARNAME\fP to \fIvalue\fP, which must be either a single word or
a quoted string.
.Pp
If last arguements are set to 0, the
.Nm
utility add to \fIVARNAME\fP, the \fIvalue\fP, which must be either a single
word or a quoted string.
.Pp
The PATH variable can take multiple \fIvalue\fP arguments,
sperated by colons (see EXAMPLES).
.Pp
The most commonly used environment variables,
USER, TERM, and PATH, are automatically imported to and exported forem the zsh
variable user, term and path.
.Pp
Use
.Nm
if you nedd to change these variables. In addition, the shell sets the PWD
environment variable form the zsh variable pwd whenever the latter changes.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following example sets the PATH varaible to search for files in the /bin,
/usr/bin, /usr/sbin and /usr/ucb/bin directorues, in that order.
.Pp
setenv PATH "/bin:/usr/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/ucb/bin"
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The following exit values shall be returned:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It 0
Successfull completion
.It 1
An error occured.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr 42sh 1 ,
.Xr unsetevn 1 ,
.Xr environ 7
